# Vada Pav detection with Deep Learning

Vada Pav is an Indian fast food dish. The dish consists of a fried potato which sandwiched inside a bread bun sliced almost in half
through the middle which is why it resembles burger, and, is often considered as the Indian version of burgers. In this project a deep learning based model has been built and trained from scratch, and, deployed to detect Vada Pavs in various food items like burgers, sandwiches, hot dogs, doughnuts etc. This is a binary classification problem.

**Test and Training Set Division of the dataset**

There are two folders in the training set : one folder contains 40 images of vada pav and the other folder contains 40 images of other kinds of food stuffs like burger, hotdog, sandwich, doughnut etc. Likewise, the test set is also divided into two folders : one folder contains 10 images of vada pav and the other folder contains 10 images of other kinds of food stuffs like burger, hotdog, sandwich, doughnut etc. 20% of training data was used for validation. All the images were picked from the Internet.

**Patch extraction**

To overcome inadequacy of data, from each train image 10 random patches of size 256*256 are extracted. Later the same is applied to the test images also.

**Data augmentation**

To increase the size of dataset and reduce overfitting, the extracted patches were subjected to data augmentation. Augmented data is generated by applying rescaling, rotation, width shift, height shift, zoom, horizontal flip, shearing. 

**Network Architecture**

A Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) based model is used in this project.

**Experimental Setup**

Experiments are conducted with Python3 with the help of certain libraries like Keras, OpenCV, NumPy, Matplotlib, PIL. Program is written on Jupyter Notebook with Tensorflow back-end on an HP laptop with 64-bit Ubuntu 16.04 LTS operating system, Intel Core i3-5005U CPU @ 2.00GHz × 4, 8 GB of RAM.

**Result**

The model achieved 79.166667 accuracy on test set.
